# euler-45-challenge
A small bench-marking challenge for Euler-45 problem

This repository has been created as part of a small Euler-45 challenge.

Euler-45 problem:
Triangle, pentagonal, and hexagonal numbers are generated by the following formulae:<br>
Triangle	 	Tn=n(n+1)/2	 	1, 3, 6, 10, 15, ...<br>
Pentagonal	 	Pn=n(3n−1)/2	 	1, 5, 12, 22, 35, ...<br>
Hexagonal	 	Hn=n(2n−1)	 	1, 6, 15, 28, 45, ...<br>

The challenge is to benchmark a specific algorithm for finding all Euler triplets between 0 and 10M (or any other upper boundary), and printing them to stdout.<br>
The goal of the challenge is NOT finding the best algorithm, and thus a very strict algorithm was chosen.<br>
The goal is to compare programming and optimization capabilities and comparing performance of different programming languages.<br>
The chosen algorithm is an O(n) algorithm.<br>
It is not the best there is (because we want to benchmark some hard and varied calculations).<br>
It is also not the worst one (we still want it to end sometime).<br>

Description of the algorithm:<br>
1. For each i between 0 and 10M: add [Triangle(i) -> i] entry into triangles_map<br>
2. For each j between 0 and 10M:<br>
     if(Pentagonal(j) belongs to triangles_map):<br>
       add [Pentagonal(j) -> j] entry into pentagonals_map<br>
3. For each k between 0 and 10M:<br>
    if(Hexagonal(k) belongs to pentagonals_map):<br>
      let val = Hexagonal(k)<br>
      remember the tuplet: <triangles_map[val], pentagonals_map[val], k, val><br>
4. Print all tuplets to stdout.<br>

Rules for participaitng in the challenge:<br>
1. If you want to participate, send me your username and I will give you push privileges.<br>
2. Open a directory under the root one and all your code and binaries into it.<br>
3. You may implement the algorithm in your favorite language.<br>
4. You may supply your own runtime and compilation environments: Java implementors may supply JRE, a script for running the program with any flag she desires, etc. C/C++ implementor may supply makefile, gcc, etc.<br>
5. You may and welcome parlelize yout programm.<br>
6. You may use any external library you want (exceot of course one that directly solves the problem).<br>
7. The first line in main method must print the current system time.<br>
8. When all calculations are finished, and all results are printed to stdout, you need to print the current system time.<br>
9. Comparison will be based on the mentioned timestamps.<br>
10. Ne other prints are required.<br>
11. Each should present a program (or script running the program) that accepts two argument: First one is the max number to check, and the other is max number of threads.<br>
12. To keep fairness, anyone may run each other's code and create his own benchmark.<br>


